Frequently asked questions about data sharing.
Here are common questions researchers often ask.
1. When should I start organizing my data for sharing?
The earlier, the better.
Don't wait until the end of a multi-year project to impose structure.
Start organizing as you collect the data.
This prevents confusion, saves time, and improves data quality.
2. When can I share my data?
At any point in the research process.
Data can be shared during ongoing projects, at the time of publication, or even afterward,
as long as it's properly documented and structured.
3. What if my data set doesn't fit a protocol like tier?
That's okay.
Protocols are guides, not rigid rules.
The key is to create a logical structure and provide sufficient documentation
so others can understand and reuse your data.